

This a model from the article:  
**Theoretical and experimental evidence for hysteresis in cell proliferation.**   
Bai S, Goodrich D, Thron CD, Tecarro E, Obeyesekere M. _Cell Cycle._ 2003 Jan-
Feb;2(1):46-52. [12695688](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12695688) ,  
**Abstract:**   
We propose a mathematical model for the regulation of the G1-phase of the
mammalian cell cycle taking into account interactions of cyclin D/cdk4, cyclin
E/cdk2, Rb and E2F. Mathematical analysis of this model predicts that a change
in the proliferative status in response to a change in concentrations of serum
growth factors will exhibit the property of hysteresis: the concentration of
growth factors required to induce proliferation is higher than the
concentration required to maintain proliferation. We experimentally confirmed
this prediction in mouse embryonic fibroblasts in vitro. In agreement with the
mathematical model, this indicates that changes in proliferative mode caused
by small changes in concentrations of growth factors are not easily
reversible. Based on this study, we discuss the importance of proliferation
hysteresis for cell cycle regulation.

  
The original model was taken from the Cell Cycle DataBase (CCDB).

Variable added: assignment rule for denoting phosphorylated Rb
(Rb_phosphorylated i.e(RT-RS-R)) created.

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not.

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

